# Solar investment plan 
#### Video Demo: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IYqKu-YlPHY>
### Background
#### As a sales manager in the solar energy industry, I've developed a web-based tool to facilitate our sales team's quick assessment of potential solar projects. The tool is designed to provide a comprehensive overview and enable our salespersons to calculate the return on investment for solar stations.

#### Within the solar energy industry, two primary business models exist. In the Ownership model, a manufacturing company, for instance, takes on the responsibility of upfront costs for installation and maintenance. In this scenario, the company becomes the direct owner of the solar station, assuming control over its operations.

#### On the other hand, the Non-Ownership model involves a different approach. Here, the company opts to procure energy from a provider who installs and maintains the solar system. In this arrangement, the company does not bear the upfront installation and maintenance costs but instead pays for the energy generated by the solar station.

#### This web tool aims to streamline the evaluation process for both ownership and non-ownership scenarios, allowing our sales team to make informed decisions and effectively communicate the benefits of solar energy solutions to potential clients.

#### The csv file 'electricity_rate.csv' contains meteorological parameters that indicate how much electricity can be generated per Walt in a specific location. The database 'finance.db' read the data from csv file by python syntax. Since this is a single action, I have deleted the part that reads the data from csv.

## templates directory (HTML files)
#### In the templates directory, there are a bunch of html files that consists of the frames of the tool.'layout.html' defines the basic structure of the page.

#### 'index.html' is the homepage and dispalys two options for the investment of solar systems. Users can select one or both of them based on their financial status. 

#### 'ownership.html' and 'non_ownership.html' serve to take inputs from users and return them to 'app.py' where the calculation takes place.

#### 'investment_plan.html' displays the result of the calculation and informs the user certain financial metrics.

### static directory
#### 'javascript.js' implements two functions that make the html page more dynamic and interactive. When dealing with inputs in html files, one of the functions populate city dropdown dynamically depending on the selected province. The other function assigns default values to input fields that are left blank when the user clicks the "generate plan" button.

#### 'styles.css' exists to make the html page more user friendly. Specifically, it not only defines the format of text, but also gather inputs in seperate blocks, making the page clean and tidy. 

### Python files
#### 'app.py' defines routes for different situations. In ownership and non_ownership routes, the code read data from database and get the inputs from the html pages. Messages will flash if certain error occurs, otherwise the inputs will be used to calculate the financial result. Route 'get_cities' works with javascript functions to dynamically populate city dropdown.

#### 'helpers.py' defines main functions that are used to reach the final result. Note that in ownership model, the owner pays a upfront cost to install the solar system and he wants to know the return of the oinvestment. One of the functions manipulates the inputs from users and generate cashflows for the investment period in order to get to the internal rate of return. While in non_ownership model, a provider installs the solar system and the energy consumer pays for the energy he consumes, in that case, the consumer want to know the rate of energy that he can enjoy. Suppose the provider has a required IRR for the investment, another function leverages Newton-Raphson method to find the unit price the provider can offer. Also, there are two simple functions to format the percentage and rmb price.